\newpage
# Chapters 9 & 10 - Review of AC Circuits
Review of topics covered in EE211

## complex numbers
- Imaginary unit: $j = \sqrt{-1}$
- A complex number in rectangular form: $a+jb$
- That same number in polar form: $D \angle \phi$
- that same number in exponential form: $De^{j \phi}$

$$
D = \sqrt{ a^2 + b^2 }
$$
$$
\phi = \tan^{-1} ( \frac{b}{a} )
$$
$$
a = D \cos ( \phi )
$$
$$
b = D \sin ( \phi )
$$

- euler's identity: $e^{j \theta} = \cos ~\theta + j~ \sin ~\theta$
- mode of a complex number: $|a + jb| = \sqrt{ a^2 + b^2 }$ (basically magnitude)
- the phase of a complex number: $\angle ( a + jb ) = \tan^{-1} ( \frac b a )$

## Phasors

A phasor is a representation of a time domain signal with an implied frequency.

Phasors are in **cosine**, so the initial phase angle ($\phi$) needs to be subtracted by $90 \degree$ if the time-domain function uses $\sin$.

$$
v(t) = 20 \sin ( 377t + 30 \degree )
$$
$$
\overline V = 20 \angle ( 30 \degree - 90 \degree ) = 20 \angle (-60 \degree)
$$

## AC Steady-State Analysis for RLC Circuits

### Combining Impedences

$$
Z_i = j \omega L
$$
$$
Z_c = \frac 1 {j \omega C}
$$
$$
Z_r = R
$$

Impedence is combined **the same as** resistance, by adding the impedences of elements in series and taking the reciprocal of the sum of the reciprocals of each element's impedence in parallel.

Ohm's law applies: $V = I Z$

**Impedednce is the same combination as resistance**.

### Nodal Analysis

Unknowns: nodal voltages

KCL applies: $\sum i_{node} = 0$

All currents coming into a node and going out of a node sum to 0.

Ohm's law applies.

### Loop Analysis

Unknowns: loop currents

KVL applies: $\sum v_{loop} = 0$

All voltage drops around a loop sum to zero.

Ohm's law applies.

### Mesh Analysis

We don't use very much.

//TODO look through notes.

### Professor's comments

- "most of our problems are simple and mostly impedance combination, current and voltage division"
- "there may be a few problems with mltiple nodes or loops, but they will not be on exams"

### Extra notes

$\omega$ is in **radians per second** and will probably need to be converted to degrees contextually. **Watch units!** Check calculator units!

### Multi-source circuits (Superposition)

Solve the problem for every source, removing all other sources, then sum the current phasors or solve for the voltage phasors.

Current sources are replaced with an open circuit, and voltage sources with a short circuit.

### Serial Voltage Division

By Ohm's law, the voltage across an element is proportional to its impedence over the total equivalent impedence, times the voltage across the region.

//TODO grab the example from the notes

This only applies for series connections. Parallel elements have the same voltage.

### Parallel Current Division

In turn, current can be divided similarly, but you must use the impedence value of the *opposite* parallel element as the numerator, and multiply by the total current through the region, rather than the voltage.

//TODO get example from notes

This only applies to two parallel elements. Series elements have the same current.
