\newpage
## Chapter 3: Methods of Analysis

### Mesh Analysis

Mesh analysis uses mesh currents as circuit variables. A mesh is a loop that does not contain any other loop within it.

Basically the smallest loops you can make with a planar circuit.

1. assign mesh currents $i_1, i_2, ~\dots, i_n$ to the $n$ meshes.
2. Apply KVL to each mesh and use Ohm's law to express the voltages in terms of the mesh currents.
3. Solve the $n$ simultaneous equations to get the mesh currents.

For a branch that is in multiple mesh loops, the current is the sum of all the mesh currents through it. Subtract currents that are in the opposite direction of the reference.

When a current source is present, we can consider the mesh's current to be + or - that value, contextually. If the current source is shared between two meshes, a supermesh needs to be created. 

With a supermesh, ignore the branch including the shared current source and evaluate both loops together. Elements should only rely on the loop current of their original loops. Once the equations are established, apply KCL to the nodes attached to the branch with the current source to solve for the two mesh currents.

## Superposition

The voltage across (or current through) an element is the sum of the voltage across (or current through) that element due to each independant source acting alone.

## Source Transformation

$$
V=IR
$$

You can abstract a section of a circuit based on those characteristics, and change what that section looks like under the hood to make solving the circuit easier.

### Thevenin

You can reduce any portion of a simple DC circuit to an independant voltage source and a single resistor in series. $V_{th}$ can be found by taking the voltage across the two terminals, and $R_{th}$ can be found by taking the resistance, with all sources turned "off" (independant voltage -> wire, independant current -> open, dependant stays), across the terminals.

### Norton

You can reduce any portion of a simple DC circuit to an independant current source and a single resistor in parallel, and the values can be found in the same way as the Thevenin.

## Maximum Power Transfer

The maximum power is imbued in a noncapacitive, noninductive circuit when $R_L = R_{th}$.
